Before with on premise there were a lot of problems like security, porblem with scaling,storage,etc.
Cloud computing is the use of a network of remote servers hosted over the interned for managing,processing, store data rather than a local server. Cloud computing is also storing our data anywhere and accesing our data from anywhere. Companies that offers these services are known as cloud providers.
Cloud Computing refers to delievery of on-demand computing resources over the internet with pay as you go basis.
Benefits of cloud computing are pay as you go basis, no worry about security and space for hardware. You can also scale easily,

3 types of deployment models- Public, Private and Hybrid
Public is what cloud infrastructure is available to the normal people over the internet owned by cloud servive providers like aws, azure, etc. We own nothing and everything is managed by the cloud providers.
Private cloud is the cloud managed by a single organiszation, like a head branch managing the cloud while providing services to its state branch offices.The organiztion may run its private cloid or outsource it to a hosting company.
Hybrid cloud is a mixture of public and private leverageing both of them,i.e. contains functionality of both of them. For example NASA uses private cloud to store sensitive data and public cloud to share data with others.
There are 3 service models available-IAAS, PAAS, SAAS
IAAS- Ifrastructure as a Service used if you want to manage the middleware,OS,Runtime, etc.
PAAS- Platform as a service used if you want develop,test or mananage applications, only handle applications and data.
SAAS- Software as a service, cloud providers host and manage the software applications on a subscription basis. Client maintains the control of a software environment but does not maintain any equipment.

The five essential characteristics of the Cloud, which include on-demand self service, broad network access, resource pooling, rapid elasticity, and measured service. Broad network access means that Cloud computing resources can be accessed through the network. Public Cloud services could generally be accessible from anywhere and on any device with Internet connectiivity and browser capabiltiies. However, in an on-premises private Cloud, an Intranet can only suffice for accessing Cloud services, provided the organization does not need to reach out to the entire world public. With resource pooling, consumers save on costs when using a shared model. This model provides Cloud providers economies of scale, which they can pass on to their customers. Making the Cloud cost efficient. Computing resources are pulled to serve
multiple consumers using a multi-tenant model, Cloud resources are dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand without customers needing to concern themselves with the physical location of these resources. Rapid elasticity implies that you can increase or decrease resources as per your demand. Because of the elastic property of the Cloud, resources can be scaled up or down vertically scaling or scaled out as in horizontal scaling. An ideal example would be to add resources when there is an increase in demand due to the increase in the number of users while shopping online, like during a holiday sale and the converse after the sales period. Measured service means that you only pay for what you use or reserve as you go. Measured services, however, do not apply to certain Cloud services, such as general email services like Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo, social media sites like Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, and Cloud service evaluation on a trial basis like AWS, Azure and GCP, which are provided for free due to the discretion policies extended by the respective service providers. Measured service is also termed as a utility model of billing, where you are charged after the usage and at the end of the predefined period, like monthly electric charges.

Welcome to the History and Evolution of Cloud Computing. Cloud computing is an evolution of technology over time. The concept of cloud computing dates to the 1950s when large-scale mainframes with high-volume processing power became available. The practice of time sharing (or resource pooling) evolved to make efficient use of the computing power of mainframes. Using dumb terminals, whose sole purpose was facilitating access to the mainframes, multiple users could access the same data storage layer and CPU power from any terminal. In the 1970s, with the release of an operating system called Virtual Machine (VM), it became possible for mainframes to have multiple virtual systems, or virtual machines, on a single physical node. The virtual machine operating system evolved from the 1950s application of shared access of a mainframe. By allowing multiple distinct computing environments to exist on the same physical hardware. Each virtual machine hosted guest operating systems that behaved like they had their own memory, CPU, and hard drives, even though these were shared resources. Virtualization thus became a technological driver and a massive catalyst for some of the most significant evolutions in communications and computing. Even 20 years ago, physical hardware was quite expensive. With the internet becoming more accessible, and the need to make hardware costs more viable, servers were virtualized into shared hosting environments, virtual private servers, and virtual dedicated servers, using the same functionality the virtual machine operating system provided. So, for example, if a company needed an ‘x’ number of physical systems to run their applications, they could split one physical node into multiple virtual systems. A hypervisor is a small software layer
that enables multiple operating systems to run alongside each other,sharing the same physical computing resources. A hypervisor also separates the Virtual Machines logically, assigning each slice of the underlying computing power, memory, and storage, preventing the virtual machines from interfering with each other. So if, for example, one operating system suffers a crash or a security compromise, the others can keep working. As technologies and hypervisors improved and could share and deliver resources reliably, some companies decided to make the cloud’s benefits accessible to users. These users did not have an abundance of physical servers to create their cloud computing infrastructure. Since the servers were already online, spinning up a new instance was instantaneous. Users could now order cloud resources from a larger pool of available resources and pay for them on a per-use basis, also known as pay-as-you-go. This pay-as-you-go or utility computing model, became one of the key drivers behind cloud computing's launching. The pay-per-use model allowed companies and even individual developers to pay for the computing resources as and when they used them, just like units of electricity. This allowed them to switch to a more cash-flow friendly OpEx model from a CapEx model. This model appealed to all sizes of companies, those who had little or no hardware, and even those that had lots of hardware, because now, instead of making substantial capital expenditures in hardware, they could pay for compute resources as and when needed. It also allowed them to scale their workloads during usage peaks, and scale down when usage subsided. And this gave rise to modern-day cloud computing.

Every organization’s transformation journey is unique, and therefore every organization’s cloud adoption strategy is also unique to them. Agility, flexibility, and competitiveness are key drivers for moving to the cloud, provided it is done without creating business disruption or issues related to security, compliance and performance. Let’s look at some key considerations that organizations can use as a guide while working through their cloud strategy. first consideration is infrastructure and workloads. The cost of building and operating data centers can become astronomical. On the other hand, low initial costs and pay-as-you-go attributes of cloud computing can add up to significant cost savings. Also, a point to consider is that not all workloads may be ready for the cloud, as is. The second consideration is around SaaS and development platforms. Organizations need to consider if paying for application access is a more viable option than purchasing off-the-shelf software and subsequently investing in upgrades. Organizations also need to consider speed and productivity, what it means for them to get a new application up and running in ‘x’ hours on the cloud versus a couple of weeks, even months on traditional platforms. And the person-hour cost efficiencies they gain from using cloud dashboards, real-time statistics, and active analytics. Let’s look at some of the benefits of cloud adoption, categorized broadly into Flexibility, Efficiency, and Strategic Value. Cloud gives us flexibility. Users can scale back or scale up services to fit their needs, customize applications, and access cloud services from anywhere with an internet connection. Cloud infrastructure scales on demand to support fluctuating workloads. Organizations can determine their level of control with as-a-service options. Users can select from a menu of pre-built tools and features to build a solution that fits their specific needs. And options like encryption and API keys help keep data secure. Cloud also brings great efficiency. Enterprise users can get applications to market quickly without worrying about underlying infrastructure costs or its maintenance. Cloud-based applications and data are accessible from virtually any internet-connected device. Hardware failures do not result in data loss because of backups maintained on the network. Cloud computing uses remote resources, saving organizations the cost of servers and otherequipment, and paying on use-basis.  services give enterprises a competitive advantage by providing the most innovative technologies available while managing the underlying infrastructure, thus enabling organizations to focus on their priorities.
While cloud brings great opportunity, it also introduces challenges for business leaders and IT departments. Some of these perceived risks include: Data security, associated with loss or unavailability of data causing business disruption; Governance and sovereignty issues; Legal, regulatory, and compliance issues; Lack of standardization in how the constantly evolving technologies integrate and interoperate; Choosing the right deployment and service models to serve specific needs; Partnering with the right cloud service providers; Concerns related to business continuity and disaster recovery. Organizations can no longer think of cloud adoption as something that is to be looked at in the future. With the right cloud adoption strategies, technologies, services, and service providers, these risks can be mitigated.

Lifecycle of a Cloud Computing Soliution: First comes Defining the Purpose- Understand the requirements of the business and determine what type of applications to run on the cloud.
Second comes Define the Hardware- Choose a compute service that will provide the right support where you resize the compute capacity in the cloud to run application programs.
Third is Define the Storage- Choose a storage service where you can backup and archive your data over the internet.
Fourth is Define the Network: Defince a network that securely delievers datat,videos,applications,etc. with low latency and high transfer speed.
Fifth is Define the Security- Set up your security services which enable services for user authentication or limiting access to a certain set of users on your AWS resources.
Sixth is Define Management Processes and Tools- You can have complete control on your cloud environment by defining management tools which monitor AWS resources and the customer applicatons running on AWS platform.
Seventh is Testing the process- Verify the process using AWS developer tools where you can build,test and deploy your code quickly.
The final process is Analytics- Finally, analyze and visualize data by using analytics services where you can start querying data instantly and get results, example how many users used which service as a graph.

What is AWS -AWS (Amazon Web Services) is a comprehensive, evolving cloud computing platform provided by Amazon that includes a mixture of infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS), platform-as-a-service (PaaS) and packaged-software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings.
